good afternoon everybody I'm Chris
Espinosa I had the components and
scripting group at Apple if you've been
to a few developers conferences and the
Apple script sessions I should be
dulling Lee familiar by now I'm gonna be
with you the rest of the afternoon I'm
standing between you and Memorial Day
weekend so I'm gonna make it crisp I'm
going to try to make it clear and I'm
gonna make it entirely Mac os10 focused
well we're here to talk about today is
the yearly update on the status of Apple
script primarily focused on Mac OS 10
and the key changes in Mac OS 10 that
affect you as scripters and affect you
as developers the first session is going
to be mostly for scripters and
developers the second session will be
exclusively for people writing software
for Mac OS 10 so if you are a script er
you can go play some pinball during the
second session and then we'll see you at
the feedback forum immediately following
I am going to talk in the first session
about things we are going to change in
the future things we know about in Apple
script 1.6 things we know about in Mac
OS 10 they were going to be addressing
but I'll be dealing with that only
briefly there's not a lot of
forward-looking promises in this session
it's going to be focused primarily on
shipping apps and getting your scripts
running on Mac OS 10 what you'll learn
is the new features of Apple script 1.6
in Mac OS 9 and Mac OS 10 that you can
take advantage of what to do about your
scripts and scripting additions how to
move them across where to put them
things like that and how to plan for
changes that we expect in future
versions but first I want to thank all
the developers who ship scriptable
applications this year I couldn't fit it
all on one screen there are a lot of
people that updates to their
applications they ship Mac OS 10
versions they ship new code and I really
really appreciate you're getting behind
the platform and keeping your scriptable
applications alive and fresh for Mac OS
10 and as usual we had some version
interesting things this year notice
would that we didn't do a dot o dot one
release I consider that a personal
triumph is that most of the stuff we
ship was good the first time around we
script we shipped Apple script 1.5 in
the customer beta for
Mac os10 we shipped Apple script one
point five point five in the Mac OS 9.1
release and it was a version of the Mac
OS 10 version back ported to Mac OS 9
and it had a few problems and when we
came out with Mac OS 10 we shipped one
point 6 on Mac OS 10 and then shortly at
thereafter as a software update for Mac
OS 9 I highly recommend that you run
Apple script 1.6 if you have Mac OS 9.1
it's really the right version to be
running one of the most common problems
that we've seen on the on the Apple
script lists is people saying oh I run
my scripts and my scripting editions
aren't there and I get all these
Chevron's syntax things in my scripts
and the common thing is people have
turned off their security extensions one
of the things that we did in 1.6 1.5
point 5 was allow the mount valium
command to use the keychain and in order
to that we created a dependency on the
security system extensions a lot of
people turn those off that turned off
all of scripting editions and we fix
that in 1.6 so if you're having problems
that your scripts don't run or your
scripting editions aren't recognized in
1.5 point in Mac OS 9.1 upgrade to Apple
script 1.6 and I'll fix it here are some
of the new features that we introduced
in one five one five five and one six
basically since the last time we were
here last year for developers one of the
things I'm going to be covering is that
we introduced into carbon into carbon
live on Mac OS 9 and and into the carbon
framework in Mac OS 10 the AE gizmos
functionality that Yin's alkie wrote lo
so many years ago and all of you have
been using as a link library for many
years we actually built that into the
operating system in 1.5 scripters won't
notice it it will have no effect on
scripters but it will help developers
get their software to Mac OS 10 we added
a fix for the double as problem I'll be
going into that if you are frustrated
with the finder and EBIT choice keys
happy
if you are frustrated with the problem
that when you ask an application get
something as something else and you get
an error can't coerce we have a fix for
you it requires developers to modify
their applications but it allows them to
do the right thing okay
we are fully supporting Unicode text is
a first-class data type in Apple script
I'll be doing a demo of that that's
mainly important when you're using the
Mac OS 10 finder either for Mac OS 10 or
from scripts running in the classic
environment where the Mac OS 10 Finder
is the only finder around Mac OS 10
finder returns its file names as Unicode
text and if your scripts were expecting
standard strings and we're doing
operations such as concatenation or text
extraction on them it would have failed
in 1/5 and 155 now it works in 1:6
because we have fully first-class
Unicode text support we added support
for packaged apps and packaged scripting
additions for Mac OS 10 support for
script files that don't have type and
creators and have all of their script
code in the data fork and that's a Mac
OS 10 convention so that you can
actually send a script across the
internet as a single file without having
to bin hex it or compress it or do
anything like that and it'll actually
work when you get it to the other end
and we have a different methodology for
dispatching events to scripting editions
on Mac OS 10 I'll talk a little bit
about that we also fixed some bugs some
of these you didn't know about some of
these you've relied on and now you have
to change I don't think you relied on
middle item of an empty list crashing
convenient way to crash your machine if
you need to but we fix that item zero of
a list used to not fail it returned
silently now it does fail and so that
should help you catch some bugs in your
scripts where you're actually trying to
get item zero of a list now it will
actually fail which is the correct
behavior the info for scripting Edition
couldn't handle files greater than 2
gigabytes in size now it can files and
folders the unit type the text to
Unicode text coercion assumed
the incoming text was Mack Roman now it
looks at what your system script is so
if you're running a non English system
the Unicode coercion will happen
correctly in random numbers if you had
large similar large seed values such as
the current time as as seconds they
would produce similar initial random
numbers and then be random after that
that disturbs some people because they
wanted all the random numbers to be
random rather than just the second
through n so we fixed that there's a
very interesting problem where I guess
this I'm gonna cast off commas here one
two three four five five hundred thirty
six million eight hundred seventy
thousand nine hundred and eleven plus
one equaled negative five hundred and
thirty six million eight hundred and
seventy thousand nine hundred and twenty
one which is not the correct answer we
fixed that and mountain volume didn't
look at keychain which some considered a
bug we considered it a new feature
addition we added that in 1.6 which is
what you get in Mac OS ten and what you
get when you do the software update to
Mac OS 9.1 we fixed some readwrite
commands that we broke in 155 we just
out now checked in the wrong code and we
just had to fix it a problem that had
been creeping around for quite a long
time was manifesting itself different in
different operating system was that if
you were displaying the contents of a
string and there was a null character
and ASCII 0 in there it would display
differently on different systems at
different times sometimes it did just be
blank sometimes it would be a backslash
sometimes it would be a large number of
garbage characters we fixed it so that
it now displays as an ASCII zoo asking
null character that you can actually
copy and paste and reinterpret so we
believe that that's the correct behavior
now you will see it it'll look like an
empty string in most fonts because most
fonts don't have a glyph for the ASCII 0
character but it's actually a string
with one character in there which is an
ASCII 0 and and
if you copy and paste it the right thing
will happen
we had some crashes in Unicode
operations that we fixed as I mentioned
before the standard editions in in 155
required the security libraries to be
present in the extensions folder and if
you'd used extension manager to turn
them off your standard editions didn't
work we fix that there were occasional
inaccurate out of memory errors this had
been bugging us for about six years we
finally figured out what was going on we
think if you see any more of these when
a script or an applet stops with an out
of memory error when it should have
plenty of memory please let us know on
the Apple script users list and we'll
and give us a reproducible case this
only happened because we got one very
very reproducible case so we can sit and
analyze it for two or three days to
figure out what was going on
it's something that happened very very
rarely and there was a problem with
scripts that were compiled on Mac OS 10
if you took them back to the classic
environment or to a Mac OS 9 machine
they would look only for their Mac OS 10
equivalents they wouldn't look for their
Mac OS 9 counterparts so the scripts
wouldn't run that was especially
problematic if you took a script that
targeted the finder you ran it once on a
Mac OS 10 system and then copied it back
to a Mac OS 9 system it would never
reconnect to the Mac OS 9 finder it
would try to keep launching the
non-existent Mac OS 10 finder on that
machine and that script would be pretty
much permanently disabled that's fixed
in 1.6 so in 1.6 you can take scripts
that target say Apple works or the
finder or Apple system profiler or
QuickTime Player or any other
application where there's a 9 and 10
equivalent you can move the scripts back
and forth and they'll do the right thing
there are some bugs we know about in 1.6
these are things we've found since the
introduction of 1 6 that we will be
fixing in subsequent versions the info
for scripting Edition fails if you
target it at a UNIX or an NFS file
system
don't try it we'll be fixing it the
low-level
Unicode text to text coercion is broken
so that if you get type you
Oh texts as an application developer and
you try to use the low-level coercion
the the Apple Event Manager coercion to
coercion to coerce into a type char that
will fail if you try to coerce it to a
type styled text that will succeed and
the type style text is a record one
element men of which is the type char
so that's your work around you coerce it
to type style text course that to a
record get the first ID first item of
that record which is the character
element and then that will be your plain
text and we'll be fixing that the mount
volume command broke on third-party user
authentication modules and that includes
UNIX file servers and Windows 2000 AFP
servers we're still not sure why it did
we think it's something that happened in
the Apple share client itself because we
didn't change any of the mount volume
code in this area we're trying to get to
the bottom of that but in the next
version we will make sure that mountain
volume works on all major AFP platforms
the read as list using de limiters is
broken so even though we we fix the
read/write o sacks there are still a
couple of little bugs hanging around
readers list using de limiters is one of
them and sometimes if you send a first
event to an application from a script
without launching it first the first
event will timeout but subsequent events
if you rerun the script it'll work we
think that that's a subtle timing
problem in the Apple event manager or
something that we're doing wrong with
noticing whether the application is up
or not we're going to address that in a
future version here are some new
features and these are primarily for
developers the AE helpers the support
for the double as problem and the
Unicode class support I'm going to go
over each of these AE helpers was born
as AE gizmos it's a quick and easier way
to deal with building Apple event
descriptor records yen's elf key from
the original Apple script team wrote
this support library
I believe it was something like 1993 or
1994 shifted as object code people have
been linking that with their systems and
shipping that that object code doesn't
link doesn't build anymore you can't use
it on carbon systems and developers have
wanted another link library or access to
the source code or something like that
we decided just to build that
functionality into carbon into carbon
Live for Mac OS 9 and into the carbon
framework for Mac OS 10 what do these do
a buildin print are a very easy way to
go between a textual description of your
Apple event and the Apple event itself
rather than going through and because an
apple event as you know can be a deeply
nested structure with descriptors inside
descriptors inside descriptors rather
than going through and building a
descriptor adding it to another
descriptor throwing away the original
coercing it to another descriptor
throwing away the other one adding that
to another descriptor throwing it away
each time doing a relatively heavyweight
handle based memory event
what a build does is it takes a textual
representation of your event does
substitution like a you know printf
statement of your actual variables for
placeholders inside the text event and
then builds the whole descriptor or
event in one shot in one operation it's
much faster it's much lighter weight it
doesn't create nearly as many
intermediate copies of things just gets
the job done much faster ie print is
sort of the converse operation it takes
a descriptor record which could be all
the way up to an apple event and then
spools it out in an reinterpret ibill
text form to make an Apple event
readable this is very useful in
debugging and I'm going to show some
examples of that the principle routines
are a build desk which builds a
descriptor AE build parameters which
adds something to an already existing
descriptor or a build apple event which
takes the appropriate parameters and
builds an apple event all in one
it's like AE create Apple event but it
lets you specify everything you need in
one statement and then the converse
event is the AE print functionality AE
print desk to handle takes a descriptor
and a list or record an apple event and
it prints it in raw text to a handle
which then you can print out or dump in
a debug window or something like that
this text representation has a syntax
all its own and so far the only
documentation for it is Yin's as
original documentation which is back in
the circa 1993 SDKs we're working on
updating that but for now if you can
find an old copy of that SDK and you can
get the original documentation that
works we've only made a couple of
changes yen's original implementation
relied on high ASCII characters curly
quotes and Chevron's to encase strings
and hexadecimal strings and we've added
some straight ASCII alternatives in case
you happen to be working in an ASCII
preferential development environment the
hex delimiter Zoar dollar signs
you know dollar signs at the beginning
in the end and the quote characters are
straight single quotes which you then
have to escape but you're grown-up so
you can do that for con so the the
language has constants it has a special
interpretation for four character codes
because most events and descriptors are
built out of four character codes you
can usually do four character codes just
by typing the four characters if there's
high ASCII or something special in there
then you enclose them in single quotes
the language will do coercion z' in
place if you say four character code
pern and then some value it'll apply
that coercion before it puts it in the
event and so you can do pretty much
coercion x' in line in this text
descriptor I'll show you a little
example of that you can describe lists
and records in that the text format and
at the bottom you see the substitution
language
and at sign substitutes and a desk
parameter for right in that position a
double at a caste that is a type and
then an @ sign in parentheses takes a
special structure which you have to
build a struct for which is a long of
the length and then a pointer to the
actual data so you can put arbitrary
data in as long as you create this this
struct which has the long and the
pointer to it the length and the pointer
to it and then if you have a handle when
we can find the length of a handle
because well it's a handle you just put
in two at signs and then the value of
that handle will be put in at that point
in the event so here's a basic usage
this is how you build a descriptor that
says every line in the equivalent of
every line of document quote name and
quote in it would be that an apple
script AE bill desk first takes the the
destination desk a pointer to that a
pointer to a build error structure which
is really useful for debugging this is
something that we've added in the carbon
version if there's an error we tell you
what the error is and what line of your
text it occurred on which is which is
very helpful for debugging the syntax of
this screen string and then you pass it
the string and then a variable list of
parameters and the string we're passing
is first single quote obj single quote
which means we're gonna build an object
specifier okay and then parens which
mean we're going to coerce into an
object specifier from something else
then inside the parens are braces which
means we're going to coerce into an
object specifier from a record okay well
that makes sense if you're building an
object specifier in straight apple event
calls that's what you do you build a
record and then you coerce it to an
object specifier here instead of making
three calls we did it in seven
characters which is really nice and then
we have our four fields of our record
the want the from the form and the SEL D
and the want is a COI n coerced to a
type type that's nice and the form is an
IND X course to an enum that
exactly what you want and the SEL D is
an type AB form absolute position of a
ll space and because there's space in
there we have to put that in single
quotes and then notice the from
parameter the the the from is another
object specifier and see we're building
an object specifier inside an object
specifier in one system call that's what
makes it fast and the from is another
object specifier built pretty much the
same way a coercion of a record of a
wonda from a format and SEL D and the
SEL D is a txt with an @ sign and the at
sign is our substitution that means
since this is the first at sign that's
encountered in the text substitute in
the first following parameter in the
call and if you look way down at the
bottom of the screen the first parameter
is doc name okay so that's what it will
do is it will take doc name as a pointer
to text and it will create a text ie
desk or text descriptor for the SEL d so
here if you want to build an object
specifier with the value in it with a
nested object specifier you can do it in
one call similarly you can build whole
Apple events that way a build Apple
event looks a whole lot like AE create
Apple event except it takes instead of
instead of giving you pretty much an
empty apple event that you then have to
fill in here's the direct parameter and
here are the optional parameters and
here are my other attributes you give it
the the event class and the event code
you give it the information the target
information the type and a pointer to
what it is in the size of that the flags
of what the return flag and the
transaction flag and then you pass it a
string and this string says basically
our direct parameter the quote - - - in
quote he is an alias and I'm going to
substitute in a handle and that means
because the double axe and that means
the first parameter following the string
had better be an alias handle
in that case it is and what this will do
is it will build an Apple event with the
direct parameter with an alias handle in
that and in one call and that saves you
two additional calls and a and a dispose
of a transitory descriptor and this will
make if you're creating Apple events to
send yourself using a build and is gonna
really speed things up let me show you
the first demo on demo one if we could
get that up on both screens I have here
our venerable simple text project and
let me go to where simple text has a
event to send an open Apple event I'm
not exactly sure what they use it for
but I found it in here so I decided to
demo it and they do a lot of things they
know out all of the descriptors they
build then they have to get current
process and then created this descriptor
and then create an apple event and then
put the parameter in is the direct
object and then they have to dispose of
it later and it it gets to be a lot of
work well what we can do
is we've got a replacement that uses a
helpers here and we can just find all of
this
and notice what we do here in our
replacement is we call AE billed Apple
event with the direct parameter and a
single @ sign and then the list that
we've already got of of things to open
so we save a couple of descriptors we
save having to dispose them we save
building an extra handle it just makes
that much easier to implement okay if we
could go back to the slides
there's another big package in AE
helpers called the AE Strings package
and the screen's package is a lot of
calls for building a deep AE descriptor
incrementally little by little and it
basically works in an open right close
kind of protocol and if you're being
nested you open right open right open
right right right
close close close there are a bunch of
calls basically open right and close for
each kind of thing you're writing and if
you want to use them basically this is
what the text this is what the code
looks like you open you write your right
you open the sub record you're right
you're right you're right you're right
you're right you close you write some
more you write some more you close you
close and you're done and this is more
efficient than having to get all of the
things that you need collected together
at one time and then creating a desk and
then putting that desk into another desk
and then putting that desk into another
desk this saves copies especially if you
have a streaming model in the first
place and if you don't want to make
multiple copies of large chunks of
information this allows you to stream
into a descriptor without having to make
multiple copies of large amount of
information it's a little more complex
it'll be used in more rare circumstances
we actually use a lot of this inside
Apple script but now it's available to
you in the 80 helpers package so let me
tell you what this means to you for
developers for scripters it doesn't mean
anything hopefully it will mean that the
applications that you're scripting will
work a little better to developers it
means that if you've got code that
relies on a gizmos you can port it to
Mac OS 10 or two-carbon applications on
Mac OS 9 without having to carry on that
old link library and with the a print
facility that I'm going to show you more
of a little later it helps you debug
because you can actually see what's
going on inside your descriptors in a
printf function so let's move on to the
next one support for the double as
problem how many of you have run into
this in real life when you ask an
application for
a script to give you some value as some
other type in it it gives you a list of
things of that value and then complains
that it can't coerce that list into what
you asked for fair number have run into
that that's because the AZ term is used
in two ways in Apple script one it's a
binary coercion operator take this and
coerce it to that type and second it's
used as a parameter to events and when
it's used as a parameter to events Apple
script isn't really smart enough to say
oh the application must have handled
that so I'm not going to do an
additional coercion it tries to be too
helpful it it knows that you want for
example the files as file specifications
are as aliases so it takes the result
and it tries to coerce it to what you
asked for even if the result is list and
so you get one or two things one is you
either get an coercion error or you get
a bad coercion for example if you ask
for things as strings it's going to take
this list and if the list can be coerced
to a spring it'll do it which isn't nice
if you were asking for the file names of
every file and you get one string with
all the file names concatenated together
so this is primarily troublesome for
plural key forms or whose clauses which
are really the most useful things
because whose clauses let the
application do the work without you
having to iterate in order to work
around this you have to iterate you have
to send more events it's much slower and
it forced the scripters to write
unnecessarily slow loops so we've got a
solution and the solution is in your
applications
if you handled the as parameter all you
have to do is to put an optional
parameter in the reply of the get data
event saying I handled the as parameter
an apple script will look at that and
say hey somebody handled the as
parameter and it won't try to do the
coercion again it's actually very
straightforward and it's compatible so
that if your application doesn't supply
at Apple script we'll do it the old way
scripts that didn't work will continue
not to work and scripts that did use the
workaround will continue to work so
that if you do this let your scriptures
know that you do this so that they won't
have to use the workarounds anymore so
let me show you how it works once again
we're in our simple text application oh
no we're not in our simple text
application because we have a different
application for this to demo this we're
using Quinn's vulnerable more OSL and
more OSL is a lovely framework for
building very scriptable applications
and one of the things and let's just
show an example of more OSL and run the
application and here's a here's a script
it makes three new windows and it gets
the name of every window as string right
well this is a classic double as a
double as case or let's say I think
that'll work
I'm not supposed to see that yet
so this makes three new windows window a
window B window C and it returns the
name of every window as Unicode text but
what happened is that more OS L gave me
the name of every window as a list of
three Unicode text items and then Apple
script said oh he wants that list as
Unicode text so it concatenated them all
into one Unicode text string so when my
application has three four windows named
CBA and untitled one what I get is a
single string that says C be a untitled
one that's not very helpful so what we
can do is open these add-ins and what we
do is right here if this is a get data
event and if it has an as parameter we
took care of it and so what we do is we
basically put the I das the I did as
parameter as true into the reply and
that's basically all we do let's quit
the application and rebuild it and run
it again and this time when we run the
script you see our result is a list of
four Unicode text strings which is
pretty much what we wanted we wanted it
as four Unicode text so thank you Quinn
for providing a great framework so it's
really simple if your application
handled the ads all you do is put you
know I das true in the reply and there
you go and we have the slides back what
this means to you is you can choose if
you did the coercion to let Apple script
know that you did it or not
what this means descriptors is that
applications should improve and you
should be able to use fewer
workarounds fewer loops and use more
applications native capabilities okay
now I got some Unicode text there and
you saw that the Unicode text all got
concatenated together as a string well
that's something that didn't happen
prior to Apple script 1/6 Unicode class
support is something that we added in
1/6 primarily to handle what's going on
with the finder the finder 10 now
returns all file names as Unicode text
one Apple script 143 could take these
and it could send them to other
applications but it displayed them as
data Chevron u txt and then a bunch of
hexadecimal it's better than nothing but
it wasn't great 1 5 and 155 added some
Unicode text support but it was broken
in some places and it didn't have any of
the concatenation operations it didn't
have the substring operations it didn't
do anything that you wanted it to do
when we realized that if you were
running Mac OS 9 scripts on Mac OS 10
and the only finder around was the Mac
OS 10 finder and the Mac OS 10 finder
always returned unix unicode filenames
and your scripts wanted to take
filenames and concatenate them and piece
them apart and do all these things with
them those scripts would break unless we
could do full Unicode text so we moved
that to high priority and we implemented
in 1 6 both 4 9 and 4 10 so unicode
strings for the script ur have character
word paragraph and text item elements
just like strings they have a length
property just like strings they have
coercion x' to lists record strings
style text and number they have the
concatenation operator they have a
number of comparison operators their
comparisons obey the considerations but
they actually obey the considerations
according to Unicode comparison rules
not the styled text comparison rules so
less than greater than may be
interpreted differently for Unicode text
than you would expect it to be for style
text especially when it comes to things
like case and they support all of the
key forms the absolute position the
first last middle some every and range
characters 1 through negative 1 through
negative 2 of Unicode text some
character of middle coat Unicode text
will pick one out of the middle Chris
Neville always wants to do some integer
and have that generated random number
but that's a different different item so
if we could have the demo1 machine up
again quit this fine application so
here's a script that scripts the finder
to get a name and we'll get the class of
the filename
that's not what I wanted I wanted the
class the class of the file name is
Unicode text I can get the individual
characters of the file name this is a
hack here because for some reason the
Finder is returning an extra Unicode an
extra garbage Unicode character at the
end of a Japanese filename that it
doesn't return at the end of a
non-japanese filename so there's a hack
here we haven't figured out what's going
on but if this is an this is an English
system it's set to English language but
if I get the characters of the filename
I get them in Japanese in the script
editor I can say character one of the
file of file name and
hello I'm going a little off-road here
because I didn't practice this and I get
the concatenation of the Japanese
character and the English characters so
concatenation works she's he saw before
range works if I say file1 and I say
every word a file name I get the three
words of this one get unicode characters
so you can see that your scripts that
are accustomed to working with strings
can work just fine with Unicode text
from the finder for scripters the the
main effect on you
the main effect on scripters is first
that your scripts that manipulate finder
filenames from 9 will work on 10 even
though 10 is returning a completely
different data format and that you will
now have access to multilingual text
regardless of what language your machine
is set to you can manipulate and display
the text from multilingual file names in
the finder even if your system isn't set
to that particular language which is a
really nice feature what this means to
developers is that now that Apple script
knows and is fully literate in Unicode
you can and should start returning
Unicode text as your primary string
datatype from whatever application data
that you have behind it I strongly
recommend that you migrate to Unicode
text now that Apple script supports it
as a first-class data type and that
scripters will be accustomed to using it
in their scripts it'll be much more
versatile for setting file names let me
tell you about some differences between
mac OS 9 and Mac OS 10 scripting
editions are the first one there are
some new features in Mac OS 10 they're
actually really great they're going to
be hard to get used to but they're
really great the scripting editions
folders follow the locales model
the Mac os10 introduced and what that
means is that there isn't just a single
system folder there's no unity between
you your operating system and your
machine anymore okay it used to be when
I was a young lad and we invented
personal computers that if you had a
machine the machine and your environment
and the operating system software we're
all the same thing okay and that's why
there's one system folder on Mac OS 9
but that doesn't work for shared
machines and that doesn't work for
machines and network environments and
that doesn't work for machines that you
want to keep running reliably for long
periods of time without screwing around
with the system software so Mac OS 10
separates those there is a system folder
for the machine there's a system folder
for the operating system and there's a
system folder for each individual user
and when you log in as that user you get
your own special system extensions and
additions and we follow this model and
that there are at least three scripting
editions folder on every Mac OS 10
system sometimes five the three are
slash systems slash library scratch
slash scripting editions which is the
one the operating system provides and
that's the one pre-populated with apple
editions and that's where the standard
editions are there's slash library slash
scripting editions which is common to
that machine and which is changeable if
you're an administrator you can put new
scripting editions in there and they
will be available by all users on that
machine without having to change what's
in your scripting editions folder in
your operating system so that if you
really want to get back to a clean
default machine just throw out slash
library slash scripting editions and the
OS will be the way it was shipped you
don't have to hunt through you know was
this a system one or did this was just
something I added and then if you've got
multiple users on the machine every user
has their own in their in their user
folder in their libraries folder in
their user folder they can have a
scripting editions folder and if they
populate that with scripting editions
those will be available
to that user but they won't be available
to other users so if you've got a
machine that you want to use as a
graphics processing workstation
sometimes or as a database machine some
other times and they have different
scripting additions and they might
conflict you can have some in one and
some in another and just log in as a
different user and you get a different
set and you can keep conflicting ones
apart it's actually a very useful
structure the code model for writing
scripting additions if you're a
developer is different and this is a
little problematic on Mac os10
all code must be carbon on Mac OS 9
system code and scripting editions or
system code because they can be invoked
by any application cannot be carbon and
so that means it's technically
impossible to write a scripting Edition
that will work on both 9 and 10 and so
don't even try it
if it's just not worth it if you want to
ship Mac OS 10 scripting editions you
have to take your Mac OS 9 scripting
Edition carbonize it package it for Mac
OS 10 and ship it for Mac OS 10 and
they'll be separate scripting editions
for Mac OS 10 can be either the CFM
model that you build with code warrior
or they can build them be the mach o
model that you build with the project
builder and they can be flat single file
or they can be packaged in in bundles if
you went to the application packaging
and extensions they're actually packages
not out not they're actually bundles not
packages because packages are
applications but that's a different
thing I don't quite understand yet
they're packages they are they're not
bundles they're packages okay they are
packet bundles that are packages okay
theoretically you could build a package
that had both the classic and the Mac
os10 deliverable in it but that'd be
kind of useless speak you know it would
be helpful for you to upload and
download just one copy but the user
would have to put it both in their Mac
os10
scripting editions folder and in their
mac os9 scripting editions folder and so
you'd have a copy of a useless scripting
Edition in each of the folders you'd
have four copies of the code when you
only really need to have two
it's just not worth it so we don't
recommend that if you have old scripting
additions you want to migrate to 10
migrate them to carbon and ship them as
Mac OS 10 only is the right way to do it
access to scripting editions is really
interesting I tried to go through this
last year and I think I confused more
people including myself than I got clear
Mac OS 9 in classic really behaved as
always classic applications will only
have access to classic scripting
editions Mac OS 10 scripts will have
access to the Mac OS 10 scripting
editions in all of the Mac OS 10
scripting editions folders and they can
get at Mac OS 9 scripting editions by
targeting a Mac OS 9 application with an
event so if you send an event from 10 to
9 from a 10 applicant from a 10 script
to a 9 application and that event is a
scripting addition event it will execute
with 9 scripting additions ok which is
both important to know if you want to
invoke the 9 scripting Edition and
important to know if you don't have a
tan equivalent of it you know the the
scripting Edition will get invoked in
that so if you say you know tell
application launcher display dialogue
display dialogue will happen in the 9
space it'll happen in classic and the
display dialogue you'll get is nines
display dialogue not tens display
dialogue so it'll come out platinum not
aqua ok important to know another
important thing to know is that Mac OS
10 applications don't execute scripting
additions in their own application space
in fact most Mac OS 10 applications
don't know about scripting additions and
so Apple script in Mac OS 10 if it sends
a scripting Edition event to an
application and the application says I
didn't handle that event then Apple
script re dispatches the scripting
Edition event to the sending application
to get executed in the sending
applications process
so if sorry I'm going back a little bit
to execute a scripting edition in nine
you got to do two things you got a
target a mac os9 application and what
doug corns of our group tends to do is
he puts launcher in the startup items
folder and launcher is a great
application because you can target it
with scripts it always hangs around it's
relatively unobtrusive and it's useful
for launching your mac os9 applications
in classic and then he uses the using
terms from clause to actually target to
actually compile the script so basically
you have to do a little setup to
actually get at launcher you tell the
launcher using terms from the real
scripting Edition get monitored depth
there's something like that and then and
an end and this script if you actually
run it in ten with classic running it
will send an event over to the launcher
launcher will execute it in classic it
will execute the even a 68k scripting
addition and return the result back to
your Mac os10 script so if you want to
if you want to use your old classic
scripting additions for Mac os10 scripts
this is the structure that you use to do
them on Mac os10 scripting additions
aren't loaded in the system heap at
startup time because there is no system
heap and there basically is no startup
time so we can't do that we were
thinking of loading scripting additions
behind the back of every application but
that would burden every application
launch time with the scripting additions
load time and applications on ten don't
need to do more work at launch time we
don't want to add another bounce just
for us so to make it to make us not have
our own bounce for every application
applications don't load scripting
additions and when we send an
application the scripting Edition
command if it doesn't handle it then we
execute it basically ourselves in the
current application context so an
application if it chooses to if it's if
it's an OS a client if it's going to
execute scripts and it would be better
off to execute scripting additions in
its own context
it'll have scripting addition
if not we'll just handle it for it the
result of the scripture should be
transparent and the result of the
programmer should be that your
application launches faster and that
people can send all sorts of scripting
additions to your application you just
won't handle them you'll never even see
them
but the scriptor will have the same
result let's see how that works so here
I've got a couple of scripting additions
I guess I can quit this and I'll go to
the finder and go to my home directory
into my libraries folder and note that I
don't have a scripting additions folder
here so I have to create one and for now
I didn't add a space that's an oversight
that we hope to be able to fix and I
take a scripting Edition and I drop it
in my scripting additions folder so now
I have access to that scripting editions
terminology and I can run it and it
works and what's interesting is that I
still have access to scripting editions
from all other applications let me go
down and see if simple text is still
running here
so here's simple text here's that script
I bet you know didn't know simple texts
have this option did you so you can see
that simple text has access to that
scripting edition too okay now the
finder
the finder doesn't execute scripts so it
doesn't have scripting editions loaded
so this opened for access scripting
addition in this parse XML scripting
Edition commands will be sent to the
finder but the finder is gonna say I
don't handle these but instead of
getting an error event not handled Apple
script will just resend it to the script
editor the script editor will execute it
and you get the right results and if you
look at the event log you'll see that
you don't even see that Reedus
it it thinks it's telling the finder it
thinks the finder is executing it but
you're the finder is not script editor
is you're just getting the right result
so what this means to developers is that
you should port your scripting editions
to carbon in order to get them on Mac
os10
and you need to release both separate
Mac OS 9 and Mac OS 10 versions of your
scripting editions descriptors what this
means is you know for optimum benefit
you could and should move your scripting
Edition calls out of your tell blocks
since if they're sent to an application
that doesn't understand them they're
just going to be reduce patched to the
to the scripting script application
anyway you might as well move them out
of your tell blocks it'll just save an
extra event send to the application for
that and if you want to target Mac OS 9
editions you need to enclose those in a
tell block for the Mac OS 9 edition
okay couple more differences in Mac OS
10 that I want to cover before we end
and go to questions one is the packages
issue Mac OS 10 apps our folders not
files as we heard in the bundles and
extensions discussion on Friday this is
for being able to work on non HFS file
systems and being able to transport
things over the network without having
resource Forks and types and creators
and things like that mangled but there's
some key differences there because your
scripts as scripters probably assume
that if you get an application it's a
file it's not a file info for will
report that the application is in
directory if you asked for path to with
an application it's going to have a
colon at the end and it's going to end
in dot app actually it's going to end in
dot app colon because that's its real
name on the file system okay you are
going to see differences between what
the real thing is on the disk from what
the user sees in the finder now we're
going to work on showing you both
versions and giving you access to what
the truth is and what the user sees we
need some help from the finder and from
the system in doing that that'll come in
in subsequent versions but for now
remember that when you use Apple script
Apple script will tell you the truth of
the file system in that an app is a
folder in ends and a colon
yNN's and dot app even if it doesn't
look like that in the finder paths and
extensions files in a we didn't change
and we're still using most of the carbon
api's for this we didn't change the way
that we interpret and show things to the
user in Mac OS 10 if you're accustomed
to colon separated path names you get
colon separated path names so your
scripts that parse colon paths will
still work if you ask for the finder for
name for every disk you're going to get
the discs on your desktop and you can
start a colon delimited path with those
disclaims that's not the way the file
system really is though
ok the file system really starts at
slash and those disks are in slash
volume slash something we debated long
and hard about whether to give you
access to both colon delimited and slash
delimited file names and we thought that
it was just going to be a total
nightmare for scripters to do that so
we're maintaining for the file and alias
types the colon delimited file name.for
and for path to and anything that
returns the filename as a string we're
going to continue to do that we will
probably not ever support slash
delimited paths but will support file
URLs which I'll talk about in the next
session the finder hides file extensions
it hides dot app now it will probably
hide other extensions in the future
info for if you want to do anything in
the file system you really need the full
name with the extension so if you say
tell app simple text we're doing a nice
thing by not making you type simple text
dot app but the real name of the
application is simple text dot app ok
path info 4 will tell you that path to
info will require that path 2 will tell
you that and in future releases will
provide you more information on what the
file extension is and whether the file
extension is showing or not in order to
enable your scripts to do the right
thing we are using extensions more in
Apple script as
was talked about in the presentation on
Wednesday extensions are not required
but if present
they'll be interpreted so if you get a
script across the internet that has no
type no creator but ends in dot scpt and
you double-click it the script editor
will open and it will read it as a
compiled script so scpt is our compiled
script file dot AppleScript is our
uncompelled raw text of apple script
and i assume that there will be other
dot script files that may or may not be
opened in the script editor for other
types and we have two special types for
terminologies Oh sax is a scripting
Edition and dot AS dictionary is for
anything else that has an apple script
dictionary whether or not it has code
attached to it for now if the user wants
the extension on it the user has to add
the extension manually we don't add any
extensions automatically as the system
evolves to allow extensions to be added
automatically if the user desires that
we'll take advantage of that but for now
if we don't put one on automatically if
the user wants one they can use it and
the script editor will continue to set
the type and creator of new files it
creates so that those files can be used
on a Mac OS 9 system and the Apple
script 1.6 the Mac OS 9 version will
also understand files without typing
Creator but only an extension so let me
tell you what we're working on before we
close and go to go to questions our
number one priority is getting more
Apple applications scriptable ok Apple
script itself we think is pretty good we
offered a solid product it offers high
degree of compatibility with Mac OS 9
it's reasonably bug free but it's the
sound of one hand clapping until you can
script the finder and the Preferences
and mail and connect to the internet and
choose printers we don't think Apple
script is done on Mac OS 10 and so we're
continuing to work on those things we
think now the loss of network tap 11 C
is a big hole we are working on that
that looks very good for the short term
future is getting networked Apple events
back in we want a more smoothly
integrate with features of Mac OS 10
paths and extensions are one and you
know the other capabilities of Mac os10
that allow you to say execute things in
the terminal let me just show you
because this is a little hack that
somebody put together but hacks are good
right as I told you there are separate
folders in each domain and there's a
components folder in your library domain
and you can take for example a new OS a
component and just drop it in your slash
library slash components folder and when
you run the script editor you have
multiple component multiple items here
in your pop-up so you have more than one
OS a language but this isn't mark alder
it's JavaScript this is something called
bundle shell and I can type PS - ax for
example and get a list of the processes
running on the machine this is actually
bundle shell this is a cheap little demo
which just takes the script and execute
it from the UNIX command line and takes
the resultant pipe it pipes it back just
to prove it's Unix there we go there's
your password file back to the slides
please so that's what I mean by more
integration with Mac OS 10 and then
there are two perennial projects that
I've been talking about forever and
we're still working on as soon as they
stop revving the OS so we can you know
sit and work on our own code for a while
rather than court we'll get through
these but a plug-in model for
applications so that your applications
can more easily support plugins and for
Apple script it's
so we can extend things like adding a
full Unicode class without having to go
into the bowels of Apple script and hack
everything ourselves and then full
object models support for lists records
and strings and other classes because we
we know that scripters are really
confused by using the object model in
applications but they can't delete a
character from a string for example so
in summary Apple script and Mac OS 10 is
pretty useful it's pretty reliable it's
got everything that the nine version has
got it works pretty well we lack the
scriptable applications on the Apple
side and we're getting good scriptable
applications on the third-party side
we're continuing to add new stuff to
Apple script we're not just sitting
still with the implementation but we are
evolving it as we get a chance to and
we're trying to do so in a compatible
way so that your scripts continue to run
Mac OS 10 and classic versions will stay
in sync for a while while you are
migrating your solutions from 9 to 10 we
will continue to make sure that your
scripts can run in either environment
there will be some point in the future
where we'll discontinued 9 support but
that's in the distant future not in the
near future and the Mac OS 10 version
will support new features in in
idiosyncrasies of the Mac OS and that
will only be in the Mac OS 10 version so
we'll start to diverge a little we're
not going to imbue 9 with all sorts of
10 like features but we will make sure
that 9 and 10 remain somewhat parallel
there's another session coming up in
about half an hour which is the building
Apple script application session if you
are writing a scriptable application or
writing an OS a client that session is
for you if you are a script er go out
and get a soda play some pinball and
we'll see you at the feedback forum at 5
o'clock which will be in room C which is
right over there across the hall ok I
would if you have questions I'm always
available I'm the middle guy our
technology manager is Jason yo who was
across the hall across the street
actually doing Darwin presentations
right now and our esteemed marketing guy
salsa goin as always the apple script
implementers and Apple script users
lists are great places to get advice
from other scripters or programmers and
I frequent the developers the
implementers list quite a bit and Chris
nibble is on the users list quite
frequently as well
you